h1. Pololu MinIMU-9 + Arduino AHRS (Attitude and Heading Reference System)

Version: 1.0.0
Release Date: 2011-09-16
"www.pololu.com":http://www.pololu.com/

h2. Summary

This is a program (sketch) for the "Arduino":http://pololu.com/catalog/product/1616 that interfaces with the Pololu "MinIMU-9 Gyro, Accelerometer, and Compass (L3G4200D and LSM303DLH Carrier)":http://www.pololu.com/catalog/product/1264. It processes the raw rotation, acceleration, and magnetic data from the MinIMU-9 to derive an estimate of the board's absolute orientation, which it outputs through the Arduino's serial interface, turning the MinIMU-9 and Arduino into an attitude and heading reference system (AHRS).

A Python test program is also included. It communicates with the Arduino serially and displays a 3D representation of the MinIMU-9 board, allowing you to visualize the output of the AHRS in real time.

Both the Arduino software and Python test program are based on "sf9domahrs":http://code.google.com/p/sf9domahrs/ by Doug Weibel and Jose Julio, which is in turn based on "ArduIMU":http://code.google.com/p/ardu-imu/ v1.5 by Jordi Munoz, William Premerlani, Jose Julio, and Doug Weibel.

h2. Getting Started
 
h3. Software

The Arduino program uses Pololu's "L3G4200D":https://github.com/pololu/L3G4200D and "LSM303DLH":https://github.com/pololu/LSM303DLH Arduino libraries, which can also be downloaded from GitHub. Follow the instructions on their respective pages to install the libraries.

The Python test program also has several dependencies you must install before you can run it:

* "Python 2.6 or 2.7":http://www.python.org/download/
* "pywin32":http://sourceforge.net/projects/pywin32/files/pywin32/
* "pyserial":http://sourceforge.net/projects/pyserial/files/pyserial/
* "VPython":http://vpython.org/contents/download_windows.html

After you have set up the prerequisites, download the archive from "GitHub":https://github.com/pololu/MinIMU9ArduinoAHRS and decompress it.

h3. Hardware

The MinIMU-9 board can be purchased on "Pololu's website":http://www.pololu.com/catalog/product/1250.

Make the following connections with wires between the Arduino and the MinIMU-9:

pre. Arduino Uno/Duemilanove    MinIMU-9
                    5V  ->  VIN
                   GND  ->  GND
          Analog Pin 5  ->  SCL
          Analog Pin 4  ->  SDA

pre. Arduino Mega                MinIMU-9
                    5V  ->  VIN
                   GND  ->  GND
         Analog Pin 21  ->  SCL
         Analog Pin 20  ->  SDA

h3. Using the AHRS